CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

## Working on React Storefront Kit

There are two ways you can develop React Storefront Kit components:

- Develop components in isolation (faster & easier):
  1. Run `yarn dev:story` in the `packages/react` directory to spin up an instance of [Ladle](https://ladle.dev/)
  2. Edit the component or the component's story `[ComponentName].stories.tsx`
- Develop components in a demo app (good for testing out the ecosystem support)
  1. Run `yarn dev`

## Authoring Components

- Exports should all be named; avoid using default exports
- The main exported component's name should match the name of the file
- Use the global variable `__HYDROGEN_DEV__` to `throw` errors in dev mode, and `console.error` in production mode
  - If using `__HYDROGEN_DEV__` in a compound `if()` statement, it must be the first check. Otherwise the `if()` statement will not be fully removed in the production bundle.
- Prefer a flat file structure over folders
- Colocate similar things into a single file: for example, a Context Provider and a hook that uses that context should be together.

## Writing Tests

- Tests should live next to the component
- Tests should end with `*.test.ts(x)` (NOT `.spec.ts(x)`)
- Tests should be wrapped with an outer describe('<ComponentName />')
- Use react-testing-library to test React components
- Use factories (faker) instead of hardcoded fixtures
- Tests should use `it` for the test block, and the text should read like a sentence

## Writing Stories

- Stories must end with `*.stories.tsx`
- If a component's props are not complex, then you can provide controls and only have one story
- If the props are vastly different (for example, Metafield), then create a story for each type of prop

## Test and Story Helpers

If you need a helper function that is shared between the tests and stories files, then you can create a file caled `{name}.test.helpers.ts(x)`.

- The function can't go into the test file, because when the story file imports it, it will also import Vitest and cause things to break
- The function can't go into the story file, because when you export it, it shows up as a story in the storybook/ladle navigation

## Writing Docs

Documentation lives in the `*.doc.ts` files, and uses a Shopify library called `@shopify/generate-docs` to pull the TypeScript type info from the source code and generate the output for the Shopify website into the `docs/` folder.

After adding or updating docs, you'll need to:

1. `cd` into `packages/react` folder
1. Run `yarn build-docs`

Which will update the generated output, and then will be picked up by the Shopify website on a regular cadence.

Docs can (and should, when possible) include two examples; one in plain JavaScript and one in TypeScript, using the format `{name}.example.(t|j)sx`.

For most contributions, this should be enough information to work off of. However, if you want to change the structure and layout of the docs, then [please read the complete documentation (available only to Shopify employees) on this process here](https://shopify.dev/internal/development/ui-reference-docs/).

## Package Exports Notes:

- Until ESLint can resolve package.exports, we added `storefront-kit` to `.eslintrc.js`->`node/no-missing-import.allowModules`

## Updating the Storefront API version

Processes that need to happen:

- Create a new branch for the version, e.g. `2022-10`.
- Comment out the "Create release pull request or publish" job in `releases.yml` so that it won't auto-publish a new version of the branch until you're ready
- Create a new changeset. Use this changeset to add notes and guides to important things that are changed as part of this update.
- Do a find & replace in the code to replace nearly all instances of the old version with the new version.
  - However, don't replace documentation unless it makes sense.
  - Also be careful that some versions of the Storefront API don't exactly match code here: for example, SFAPI `2022-07` could be `2022-07`, `2022-7`, and `2022.7.x` in this codebase.
  - Note that the package.json `version` field cannot have leading `0`s. So you cannot have `2022.01.0`, and must instead use `2022.1.0`
- Run the `graphql-types` NPM script to generate the new types.
  - Look through the new schema and see if there are any breaking changes
  - If there are new scalars, or scalars are removed, update the `codegen.yml` file's custom scalar settings and run the command again.
- Search for all instances of `@deprecated` and see if it is time to make that breaking change
- Run the `ci:checks` NPM script and fix any issues that may come up.
- Manually update the `package.json` `version` to the latest. Note that you can't have a leading `0` in the version number, so for example Storefront API `2022-07` would have to be `2022.7.0`
- Once you feel that everything is ready:
  - Do one last `ci:checks`
  - Push the branch up to Github. Do _not_ make a Pull Request - we want the older Storefront API branch to stay as a snapshot of the code that was there at that release.
- Change the default branch in Github to the newly-created branch.
- Un-comment out the "Create release pull request or publish" job in `releases.yml`
- Changelog CI will automatically create a new PR with the changelog. Merge it for the first official release of the new version!

Commit message:

Renaming it again to hydrogen-react
Hopefully the last time... :)

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

## Working on Hydrogen React

There are two ways you can develop Hydrogen React components:

- Develop components in isolation (faster & easier):
  1. Run `yarn dev:story` in the `packages/react` directory to spin up an instance of [Ladle](https://ladle.dev/)
  2. Edit the component or the component's story `[ComponentName].stories.tsx`
- Develop components in a demo app (good for testing out the ecosystem support)
  1. Run `yarn dev`

## Authoring Components

- Exports should all be named; avoid using default exports
- The main exported component's name should match the name of the file
- Use the global variable `__HYDROGEN_DEV__` to `throw` errors in dev mode, and `console.error` in production mode
  - If using `__HYDROGEN_DEV__` in a compound `if()` statement, it must be the first check. Otherwise the `if()` statement will not be fully removed in the production bundle.
- Prefer a flat file structure over folders
- Colocate similar things into a single file: for example, a Context Provider and a hook that uses that context should be together.

## Writing Tests

- Tests should live next to the component
- Tests should end with `*.test.ts(x)` (NOT `.spec.ts(x)`)
- Tests should be wrapped with an outer describe('<ComponentName />')
- Use react-testing-library to test React components
- Use factories (faker) instead of hardcoded fixtures
- Tests should use `it` for the test block, and the text should read like a sentence

## Writing Stories

- Stories must end with `*.stories.tsx`
- If a component's props are not complex, then you can provide controls and only have one story
- If the props are vastly different (for example, Metafield), then create a story for each type of prop

## Test and Story Helpers

If you need a helper function that is shared between the tests and stories files, then you can create a file caled `{name}.test.helpers.ts(x)`.

- The function can't go into the test file, because when the story file imports it, it will also import Vitest and cause things to break
- The function can't go into the story file, because when you export it, it shows up as a story in the storybook/ladle navigation

## Writing Docs

Documentation lives in the `*.doc.ts` files, and uses a Shopify library called `@shopify/generate-docs` to pull the TypeScript type info from the source code and generate the output for the Shopify website into the `docs/` folder.

After adding or updating docs, you'll need to:

1. `cd` into `packages/react` folder
1. Run `yarn build-docs`

Which will update the generated output, and then will be picked up by the Shopify website on a regular cadence.

Docs can (and should, when possible) include two examples; one in plain JavaScript and one in TypeScript, using the format `{name}.example.(t|j)sx`.

For most contributions, this should be enough information to work off of. However, if you want to change the structure and layout of the docs, then [please read the complete documentation (available only to Shopify employees) on this process here](https://shopify.dev/internal/development/ui-reference-docs/).

## Running CI Checks Locally

Every PR must pass certain CI checks in order to be merged; you can run these checks locally yourself by running `yarn ci:checks` from the root of the repo.

## Package Exports Notes:

- Until ESLint can resolve package.exports, we added `hydrogen-react` to `.eslintrc.js`->`node/no-missing-import.allowModules`

## Updating the Storefront API version

Processes that need to happen:

- Create a new branch for the version, e.g. `2022-10`.
- Comment out the "Create release pull request or publish" job in `releases.yml` so that it won't auto-publish a new version of the branch until you're ready
- Create a new changeset. Use this changeset to add notes and guides to important things that are changed as part of this update.
- Do a find & replace in the code to replace nearly all instances of the old version with the new version.
  - However, don't replace documentation unless it makes sense.
  - Also be careful that some versions of the Storefront API don't exactly match code here: for example, SFAPI `2022-07` could be `2022-07`, `2022-7`, and `2022.7.x` in this codebase.
  - Note that the package.json `version` field cannot have leading `0`s. So you cannot have `2022.01.0`, and must instead use `2022.1.0`
- Run the `graphql-types` NPM script to generate the new types.
  - Look through the new schema and see if there are any breaking changes
  - If there are new scalars, or scalars are removed, update the `codegen.yml` file's custom scalar settings and run the command again.
- Search for all instances of `@deprecated` and see if it is time to make that breaking change
- Run the `ci:checks` NPM script and fix any issues that may come up.
- Manually update the `package.json` `version` to the latest. Note that you can't have a leading `0` in the version number, so for example Storefront API `2022-07` would have to be `2022.7.0`
- Once you feel that everything is ready:
  - Do one last `ci:checks`
  - Push the branch up to Github. Do _not_ make a Pull Request - we want the older Storefront API branch to stay as a snapshot of the code that was there at that release.
- Change the default branch in Github to the newly-created branch.
- Un-comment out the "Create release pull request or publish" job in `releases.yml`
- Changelog CI will automatically create a new PR with the changelog. Merge it for the first official release of the new version!
